.\" Minimal man page for image-square-wizard
.TH ISW 1 "October 2025" "image-square-wizard 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
isw \- pad images to a square canvas using libvips
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B isw
[
.B --blur
]
[
.B --rcb
.I SPEC
]
.I INPUT
.I OUTPUT
.br
.B isw
.B --help
.br
.B isw
.B --version
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBisw\fR (image-square-wizard) analyses the aspect ratio of an image and pads
it to a square canvas via libvips. By default it probes the dominant color in
the image and uses that color for the newly created borders. The utility can
also generate a blurred square background from the image itself, or
accept an explicit background color / transparent padding.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --blur
Generate the resizer canvas background from a resized, cropped, blurred copy of
the image. This opt-in mode creates a softer continuation of the original image
for the newly created padding. It cannot be combined with \fB--rcb\fR.
.TP
.B -r, --rcb SPEC
Set the resizer canvas background. Accepts \fItransparent\fR, hexadecimal
colors (#rgb, #rrggbb, #rgba, #rrggbbaa) or comma separated numeric triples/
quadruples (e.g. 12,34,56 or 12,34,56,128). Components must be between 0 and
255. Transparency requires an alpha-capable output format. This option cannot
be combined with \fB--blur\fR.
.TP
.B --help
Show detailed help text and exit.
.TP
.B --version
Show version information and exit.
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
Input and output formats must be supported by libvips (jpg, png, webp, heic,
heif, tif, tiff, avif). Unsupported extensions abort processing.
.IP \(bu 2
Transparent backgrounds require alpha-capable formats (png, webp, heic, heif,
tif, tiff, avif). Attempting to use \fItransparent\fR with other formats exits
with an error.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns 0 on success. Non-zero exit codes indicate invalid arguments or libvips
failures.
.SH AUTHOR
Igor Klepacki <neg4n@icloud.com> - neg4n.dev - https://github.com/neg4n/
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvipsthumbnail\fR(1), \fBvips\fR(1)
